Back with Padres on 3-year deal, King has 'unfinished business'
December 19th, 2025
AJ Cassavell

SAN DIEGO -- The Padres needed starting pitching this winter, and in the end, they didn’t have to look very far to find it.

Right-hander Michael King has signed a three-year deal to return to San Diego -- worth $75 million in total, with opt-outs after each of the first two seasons. The team announced the signing with a press conference at Petco Park’s auditorium on Friday afternoon.

“We have some unfinished business,” said King. “I want to be a part of a championship team. And that was the No. 1 pillar that I set [in] teams that I wanted to go to. It needs to be a team that is going to win.”

With King on board, the Padres sure seem capable. Their rotation picture is certainly much clearer.

Per MLB.com's Mark Feinsand, King will receive a $12 million signing bonus, paid out across the three seasons, with a $5 million salary in 2026. He is then owed a $28 million salary in 2027 with a $5 million buyout should he opt out and a $30 million salary in 2028.

Essentially, the deal will be worth $22 million for one year, $45 million for two or $75 million for three -- depending on if King opts out and when.

“In the starting-pitching rotation, we were in a spot that we had some holes to fill,” said general manager A.J. Preller. “As we sat down and prepped out the starting pitchers that were out there, Michael was somebody that we had as very top priority.”

King spent the past two seasons in San Diego, where he blossomed into a front-of-the-rotation starter after beginning his career primarily as a reliever with the Yankees. Since joining the Padres, King has posted a 3.10 ERA in 46 appearances (45 starts) and delivered solid playoff performances.

Earlier this offseason, King declined a one-year, $22.025 million qualifying offer. Instead of risking his departure, San Diego committed long term to one of its most reliable arms.

King’s return stabilizes a rotation that lost Dylan Cease in free agency and will be without Yu Darvish for the 2026 season following elbow surgery. Joe Musgrove is expected back from Tommy John surgery, while Nick Pivetta remains a key piece at the top of the staff.

In 64 career starts, King owns a 3.35 ERA with more than 10 strikeouts per nine innings. His deep pitch mix -- featuring multiple fastballs, changeups, cutters and sweepers -- has translated effectively to a starter’s workload.

Though injuries limited his innings in 2025, King said the disappointment only fueled his motivation.

“Opening Day starters go 200 innings,” King said. “Unfortunately, I wasn’t able to do that. Unfortunately, we were bounced in the first round of the playoffs. I think that plays a lot into the competitive nature in me.”

The Padres followed the King signing by agreeing to terms with Korean infielder Sung-Mun Song and may continue adding pieces this offseason. But the return of King represents the most significant step in clarifying their rotation and reaffirming their win-now intentions.

AJ Cassavell covers the Padres for MLB.com.
