Title: Boyd regroups at Wrigley as Cubs blank Crew to force Game 5
Content:
CHICAGO – After the standing ovation from the raucous crowd at Wrigley Field on Thursday night, Matthew Boyd went right to the top step of the Cubs’ dugout. The veteran lefty waited and watched Daniel Palencia’s escape of the fifth inning, letting out a yell as the reliever induced a flyout off the bat of Brewers star Jackson Chourio.
This was vintage Boyd, focusing on a teammate when the spotlight was deservedly on him. Boyd earned attention for his performance in Game 4 of the National League Division Series, when the southpaw seized his shot at redemption and set the tone for the Cubs’ 6-0 win over the Brewers to send this series back to Milwaukee.
“He delivered a great one tonight,” Cubs manager Craig Counsell said. “I know it was really important to him after Game 1, how he pitched tonight. He gave us exactly what we needed.”
Boyd worked into the fifth inning, giving Counsell the ability to line up Chicago’s relievers to finish off this game’s 27-out puzzle. Ian Happ kept the Cubs’ first-inning magic rolling with a three-run blast off ace Freddy Peralta, and the North Siders were on their way to evening up this best-of-five NLDS at two games apiece.
“The Cubs earned it,” Brewers manager Pat Murphy said. “They had their backs against the wall, and they played great these last two games.”
There have been 35 previous instances in which a team lost Games 1-2 on the road in a Division Series with the current 2-2-1 format. Only five forced a winner-take-all Game 5, and three went on to complete the comeback. The Cubs have won three elimination games in a row once before in club history – in the 2016 World Series triumph over Cleveland.
Boyd’s 4 2/3 scoreless innings for the Cubs marked the longest start of this postseason for the North Siders. For Boyd, this was his chance to turn the page on a disastrous Game 1 showing against the Brewers where he exited after just 30 pitches.
The 34-year-old Boyd, who was an All-Star this season, also knew he would be in the comforts of Wrigley Field, where he went 12-1 with a 2.51 ERA in 15 starts this season. Boyd said the atmosphere helped him feel comfortable before he even threw a pitch.
“Jogging out to warm up, and the bleachers are just going crazy for you,” Boyd said. “To look up and the moon is already up, it's dark out there, and the fans have your back 40 minutes to game time, there's nothing like that. It's really special."
In the first inning, Boyd issued a leadoff walk to Christian Yelich but quickly settled down, striking out Chourio and generating outs against William Contreras and Brice Turang. Happ’s home run in the first off Peralta gave Boyd the wiggle room needed to command the zone. The lefty had six strikeouts, ending with Yelich swinging through an inside sinker in the fifth.
The hard-throwing Palencia navigated out of the fifth, and the bullpen continued its strong postseason run. An RBI single from Matt Shaw in the sixth and solo blasts by Kyle Tucker and Michael Busch in the seventh and eighth provided important insurance. After the win, Counsell had a message for his ballclub: “It was, ‘Pack your bags.’ That's all we wanted to do today was pack our bags. We get to pack our bags.”