
Title: L.A. Dodgers force World Series decider after defeating Blue Jays 3-1 in Game 6
Content:
The Toronto Blue Jays had their chances. They didn’t capitalize. Now, they have just one more: Game 7 of the World Series in Toronto on Saturday.
With a chance to clinch the title in Game 6 on Friday at Rogers Centre, the Blue Jays instead fell 3-1 against the Los Angeles Dodgers, setting up a decisive final contest. One clash for all the marbles — between the defending champion Dodgers and the plucky Blue Jays — will determine the 2025 MLB champion.
“It’s gonna be fun. It’s gonna be three or four or five hours of mayhem and great baseball. But these guys are going to be ready for it,” Blue Jays manager John Schneider said after Game 6.
Missed chances
On Friday, a three-run rally in the third inning was enough offence for the Dodgers, who let ace Yoshinobu Yamamoto do the rest. Yamamoto went six strong innings, allowing just one run while spreading five hits and striking out six.
Meanwhile, the Blue Jays are left ruing missed chances — including in the ninth inning, when a pair of strange plays kept them from scoring. First, an Addison Barger drive to the gap lodged under the left-centre field wall, leading to a ground-rule double on a play in which both Barger and Myles Straw, pinch-running for Alejandro Kirk, raced around the bases to score — only to be sent back to their bases. Then, Barger was picked off second base after an Andrés Giménez lineout to left, ending the game.
“Been here a long time, haven’t seen a ball get lodged, ever,” Schneider said. “Caught a tough break there. He put a really good swing on that pitch. Ultimately we had second and third with none out and guys who make contact and just didn’t get it done.”
An inning earlier, the Blue Jays put runners at first and second with one out, only to see that potential rally fizzle. In the sixth inning, with Yamamoto nearing the end of his outing, Daulton Varsho went down on strikes with two on and two out. Missed opportunities defined the Blue Jays in this game, as they scattered eight hits over nine innings while the Dodgers bunched three of their four hits in a single frame.
Ohtani's impact
In the middle of L.A.’s brief offensive outburst was Shohei Ohtani. The two-way superstar stepped to the plate with two out and a man on second in the third inning. Schneider flashed four fingers and intentionally walked Ohtani, choosing instead to let Kevin Gausman face Will Smith.
Smith made the Blue Jays pay, doubling into the left-field gap to score the runner from second. Then, after a walk to Freddie Freeman, Mookie Betts knocked a single into left field to cash both Ohtani and Smith.
“That’s something we talked about before the series: if there was an obvious chance to take the bat out of [Ohtani’s] hands, yeah, we’re gonna do it," Schneider said. "Again, they have really good hitters up and down their lineup, so you’re damned if you do, damned if you don’t sometimes.”
The rally was Gausman’s lone blemish on the night. He didn’t allow a hit or a walk in his other five innings, but the brief lapse was enough to cost his team as its bats went silent.
'Wild, wild way to finish it'
In the fateful final frame, the double play involving Barger's pick-off took the bat out of George Springer’s hands while he was in the on-deck circle. “It’s a tough play, it’s such a tweener. … But wild, wild way to finish it for sure,” Schneider said.
In Game 7, everything is on the table. “It’s all hands on deck. Shohei is going to pitch, I just don’t know when,” Dodgers manager Dave Roberts said.
For the Blue Jays, everyone will be available, including Gausman if needed. Future Hall of Famer Max Scherzer will start on the mound for Toronto. “These guys are really good at just turning the page... They’re gonna be ready to play tomorrow. Everybody’s gonna be ready to play,” Schneider said.