Title: Gritty Blue Jays unfazed on the road, tie up ALCS vs. Mariners
Content:
SEATTLE – So far, home-field advantage hasn’t meant much in this American League Championship Series – and the Blue Jays couldn’t be happier about it.
Max Scherzer shone in a vintage performance while Andrés Giménez homered and drove in four runs, silencing the crowd for a second consecutive evening in the Blue Jays’ 8-2 victory over the Mariners in Thursday night’s Game 4 at T-Mobile Park. Toronto’s win continues the trend of road teams winning each matchup so far, pulling the ALCS even at two games apiece while ensuring this series will return to Canada with everything still up for grabs.
“You’re in the biggest moment of the season right now,” Scherzer said. “These games are must-win, every single one of them. When you get success, it’s great. This is what you play for.”
Making the 500th start of his career (regular season and postseason combined), Scherzer rolled back the clock, his effort best encapsulated by a fifth-inning snapshot that showcased his fiery, hard-driving “Mad Max” persona. One out shy of qualifying for a victory, Scherzer snarled and shouted emphatically during a mound visit from manager John Schneider, who left the three-time Cy Young Award winner in the game.
“I kind of went, ‘Whoa, whoa, whoa,’ like, ‘I’m not coming out of this ballgame,’” Scherzer said. “I feel too good. I wanted it.”
Schneider said he “thought he was going to kill me.” Scherzer responded by striking out Randy Arozarena on a curveball in the dirt, punctuating it with a roar and a fist pump.
“When a Hall of Famer like this tells you he’s good,” Vladimir Guerrero Jr. said through an interpreter, “you leave him in the game.”
Guerrero launched a seventh-inning homer to pad Toronto’s advantage – Guerrero’s fifth home run this postseason, breaking a tie with José Bautista (2015) for the most in a single playoff run by a Blue Jays player. Toronto has outscored Seattle 21-6 after losing the first two games at home.
“We knew it wasn’t going to be easy,” said Seattle catcher Cal Raleigh. “Now it’s a best-of-three.”
Teams to lose Games 1-2 but then win Games 3-4 in any best-of-seven postseason series have gone on to win that series 10 of 23 times (43.5%). In series with the current 2-3-2 format that have been tied after Game 4, the team playing Game 5 on the road has taken the series 34 of 60 times (56.7%).
As in Game 3, the Mariners struck first, with Josh Naylor lifting a Scherzer changeup for a second-inning home run. But once again, the bottom of Toronto’s order sparked a third-inning outburst. Isiah Kiner-Falefa led off with a double, and Giménez followed by hammering a Luis Castillo slider over the right-field wall.
“We dealt with adversity all year,” Kiner-Falefa said. “We almost lost the AL East lead, and we played every game the way we’ve been playing the last couple days. Our backs were against the wall. We had to go on a little bit of a run, and we ended up getting the job done.”
Two more hits and a walk prompted an exit for Castillo, with Gabe Speier inheriting a bases-loaded, one-out jam. Speier lost Daulton Varsho to a full-count walk that forced home Toronto’s third run, then recorded back-to-back strikeouts to escape the inning. Toronto wasn’t done. Kiner-Falefa opened the fourth with a single and scored on George Springer’s double. Matt Brash later bounced a slider for a wild pitch that allowed Springer to trot home with Toronto’s fifth run.
Scherzer quickly erased any doubts about his health, hitting 96.5 mph on a first-inning pitch to Raleigh – his fastest velocity of the season. He limited Seattle to three hits and four walks while striking out five.
“He was huge for us today,” said Springer. “He was who he is. You kind of stay away from him. You kind of just let Max be Max. It was entertaining, for sure.”
Eugenio Suárez stroked a sixth-inning RBI single facing Mason Fluharty, but right fielder Addison Barger threw out Naylor at third base to end the inning. Giménez added two insurance runs in the eighth with a two-run single. Scherzer became the fourth pitcher to win an ALCS start at age 41 or older, joining Dennis Martinez, Roger Clemens, and Kenny Rogers.