Title: Brewers tap into power reserves, drub Cubs for 2-0 NLDS lead
Content:
MILWAUKEE -- The Brewers, short of starters by season’s end but long on creativity in run prevention, spent weeks putting together a pitching plan for Game 2 of the National League Division Series. Four batters into that plan, they found themselves down three runs, but won anyway, 7-3 over the Cubs on a power-packed Monday night at American Family Field.
They won because a team that doesn't hit many home runs hit them in bunches, and because a rookie flamethrower who couldn't find the strike zone late in the regular season delivered the most pivotal stretch of outs in his postseason debut.
Andrew Vaughn answered Seiya Suzuki’s three-run homer in the first inning with a three-run homer of his own. William Contreras hit a tie-breaking solo shot in the third, and Jackson Chourio provided the exclamation point with a three-run homer in the fourth to back Jacob Misiorowski’s middle relief and put Milwaukee in a commanding 2-0 lead in this best-of-five NLDS.
In postseason history, teams taking a 2-0 lead in any best-of-five series have gone on to win 80 of 90 times.
The Brewers had played 55 postseason games in their 57-year history without a home run with multiple runners on base. They hit two in the span of four innings on Monday. One came from Vaughn, who had gone homerless in his last 146 plate appearances. The other came from Chourio, whose availability was in doubt after an injury in Game 1. At 101.4 mph, the fastball Chourio hit was the fastest postseason pitch hit for a home run since tracking began in 2008.
“That home run,” Contreras said of Vaughn’s blast, “was the most important part of the game for us. I think that home run put us back in the mentality of ‘no one thought this was going to be easy, but at the same time, maybe it’s not going to be so hard here.’”
On the mound, Misiorowski made his postseason debut by facing Cubs star Kyle Tucker with four fastballs that clocked between 103.4 mph and 104.3 mph. He recorded nine outs on 57 pitches—31 of which were 100 mph or higher—allowing just one hit and striking out four.
The Brewers also employed a "deke" strategy. Quinn Priester, scheduled to start Game 3, went out to the bullpen to warm up alongside opener Aaron Ashby to trick the Cubs into thinking he was the "bulk" reliever. Priester didn't actually pitch, eventually throwing a scheduled bullpen session after the game at 11:10 p.m. CT. “If this is going to help us one percent, or help us on one at-bat or one pitch, why not?” Priester said. “I’ll do whatever.”
