Article 1
Title: Homer barrage sinks Reds in Wild Card Game 1 loss
Content:
LOS ANGELES -- A Los Angeles native who went to many games at Dodger Stadium as a kid -- including during the postseason -- Reds starting pitcher Hunter Greene called the opportunity to start his first career playoff game vs. the Dodgers a special "full-circle moment."
Four pitches into Game 1 of the National League Wild Card Series on Tuesday, Shohei Ohtani smashed that full circle with a booming home run. It was one of three homers that Greene surrendered -- among the five slugged overall -- during a 10-5 Reds loss.
“They just took advantage of some opportunities and some pitches," catcher Tyler Stephenson said of Greene's outing. Often erratic while unable to meet the moment of the biggest game of his career, Greene lasted only three innings and allowed five runs, six hits and two walks with four strikeouts while throwing 65 pitches.
In a 2-1 count to Ohtani in the bottom of the first inning, Greene threw a 100.4 mph fastball. While Stephenson seemed to set up for the pitch inside, Greene left it too much over the plate and it was demolished for a leadoff home run to right field -- Ohtani's first of two long balls on the night. The ball was tracked at 117.7 mph off Ohtani's bat -- the fourth-hardest postseason homer since Statcast debuted in 2015.
With one out in the third inning, Greene issued back-to-back walks to Freddie Freeman and Max Muncy. Then after a wild pitch moved up the runners, Teoscar Hernández made Greene pay dearly by hitting a 3-run homer. Tommy Edman followed with back-to-back homers to extend the lead to 5-0.
The second homers of the night by Hernández and Ohtani against reliever Connor Phillips made it an 8-0 game in the sixth inning by the time the Reds offense came to life. Dodgers starter Blake Snell took a shutout into the seventh inning while enjoying a stretch of 11 in a row retired.
Back-to-back one-out singles by Austin Hays and Spencer Steer got things started. Hays scored when Elly De La Cruz grounded to shortstop and beat out the double play. Stephenson's RBI double to left field off Snell provided a second run. The Dodgers' bullpen let the Reds close the gap with three runs allowed during a 59-pitch eighth. It included four one-out walks and an RBI single by Steer to center field that made it a five-run deficit.
With the bases still loaded, Stephenson dueled lefty Jack Dreyer with an 11-pitch at-bat before striking out. The Reds hope that putting a dent in the Dodgers bullpen can be to their benefit on Wednesday.
Just like that, the Reds are staring down an elimination game, down 1-0 in the best-of-three series. Game 2 is Wednesday, with Zack Littell opposing Yoshinobu Yamamoto.
“It feels like we’ve had our backs against the wall plenty of times this year, and that seems like when we’re playing our best," Steer said. "Our backs are against the wall tomorrow and we’re going to come out and show some fight tomorrow and hopefully, make something happen.”
