Title: Dodgers BARELY survive Phils' 9th-inning rally to take 2-0 NLDS lead
Content:
PHILADELPHIA -- Sometimes, the hardest outs to get are the final three. The Phillies were threatening to flip the game on its head, inching within a run in the bottom of the ninth. With the tying run on second base and nobody out, the Dodgers’ infield felt that they could not run their standard playbook. So the captain of the infield spoke up. Mookie Betts took the wheel, so to speak, and helped steer his team out of a precarious situation.
After Monday night's 4-3 win over the Phillies, the predominant conversation around the Dodgers did not revolve around their taking a two-game lead in the NL Division Series, or another commanding performance from a nearly unhittable Blake Snell. The clubhouse was abuzz about a wild bottom of the ninth in which they executed a wheel play to perfection to change the tone of the inning.
"It's just a really smart baseball play," third baseman Max Muncy said. "And for him to immediately be coming right to me and talking about doing it, it shows his intuition in the game. It's second to none out there."
The Dodgers were three outs away from taking two games at a hostile Citizens Bank Park. With a three-run lead, manager Dave Roberts called on Blake Treinen. But Treinen allowed three straight hits, the last of which was a two-run double from Nick Castellanos that allowed the Phillies to pull within one. While Roberts went to the mound to remove Treinen in favor of Alex Vesia, the infield discussed how to handle the situation.
The Dodgers landed on running a wheel play, a drill they rarely run in practice. With Vesia on the mound, Bryson Stott stepped to the plate and squared around to bunt. He made contact on the second pitch, and the play went off without a hitch: Muncy raced down the third-base line and fielded the ball. Betts sprinted to third base, gaining a wide berth on Castellanos. Muncy threw to third, Betts applied the tag and Castellanos was out.
"Mookie did a great job of disguising the wheel play," Phillies manager Rob Thomson said. "Mookie broke so late that it was tough for Stotty to pick it up."
Vesia allowed a single to pinch-hitter Harrison Bader before Max Kepler grounded into a forceout, putting the tying run at third and the go-ahead run at first with two outs. In came Roki Sasaki, looking for his second career save. It took two pitches from Sasaki and a pick from first baseman Freddie Freeman to end the game. Since saves became an official stat in 1969, Sasaki is the first Major League pitcher to have his first two career saves come in the postseason.
But it all started with a heads-up call from Betts, who has grown into the role of starting shortstop in his first full season at the position. "He’s becoming the full package at short," Miguel Rojas said. "To be in the big leagues 12 years, he keeps getting better every single day.”
