Title: Historic Game 1 goes exactly according to plan as Blue Jays dominate Dodgers 11-4
Content:
It might be an understatement to say Game 1 of the World Series went exactly as the Toronto Blue Jays planned.
Rookie Trey Yesavage does enough to keep you in the game? Check. Knock out Los Angeles Dodgers starter Blake Snell relatively early? Check. Offence takes advantage of a weak Dodgers bullpen? Emphatic check.
In the end, all those check marks amounted to an 11-4 win for the Blue Jays over the defending-champion Dodgers, marking Toronto’s first World Series victory since Joe Carter touched 'em all in 1993.
“Just madness,” said Addison Barger, the Game 1 hero after hitting the first pinch-hit grand slam in World Series history. “The fans are so energetic, we really feel it. I thought we put together a lot of good at-bats, we made it happen and it worked out.”
In a way, the victory encapsulated the 2025 Blue Jays: They were counted out by many pundits before the World Series even began. They fell behind 2-0 early. But they never seemed to panic and just kept playing their game.
Historic grand slam
The Blue Jays broke things wide open in the sixth inning with nine runs, representing the most in a single World Series frame since the Detroit Tigers put up a 10-spot in 1968. In the middle of it all was Barger, who launched his historic grand slam 413 feet to right-centre field, sending Rogers Centre into pandemonium.
“I couldn't feel my legs. I just kinda blacked out,” Barger told Sportsnet’s Hazel Mae in his post-game interview.
It was Barger’s teammates who set the stage for his moonshot. On Thursday night, the 25-year-old needed a place to stay as his family came to Toronto for the World Series and took over his apartment. Outfielder Davis Schneider stepped up to the plate. He offered Barger a spot on his pull-out couch at the hotel overlooking Rogers Centre, and Barger accepted. They woke to stadium workers practising introductions around 9 a.m. A little over 12 hours later, Barger woke up the entire country with his blast.
Grinding out at-bats
Bo Bichette, playing his first game since spraining his knee on Sept. 6, drew a lead-off walk to get things going. Alejandro Kirk followed up with an opposite-field single. Then, Daulton Varsho worked a long at-bat, drawing the count full before being hit by a Snell pitch, ending the starter’s night.
“We had a good approach off [Snell], made him work, that was the biggest thing," Varsho said. "For us, just being able to grind out at-bats, knowing we can pass the baton on to the next guy, it’s been our MO all year and we trust it."
Then, Ernie Clement gave the Blue Jays their first lead of the game with an RBI single. Pinch-hitter Nathan Lukes drew a bases-loaded walk. Andrés Giménez added another RBI single to put the Jays up 5-2 and chase reliever Emmet Sheehan. And then Barger went boom, immediately thrusting himself into Blue Jays lore.
Alejandro Kirk added a two-run shot later in the inning to give the Blue Jays even more breathing room, which ultimately allowed them to keep closer Jeff Hoffman and top reliever Louis Varland fresh ahead of Saturday’s Game 2.
Not to be forgotten is the fourth inning, when Varsho provided the first bit of magic, launching a game-tying two-run home run off Snell, the Dodgers’ ace. It was the first home run the lefty Snell has given up to a left-handed hitter since June 2024. Despite being held without a run for three innings, the Blue Jays worked Snell hard, including a 29-pitch first inning that set the stage for the starter’s early exit.
Yesavage battled — and made history
Meanwhile, rookie Trey Yesavage, the second-youngest pitcher to ever start a World Series game at just 22, battled his command through four innings, but limited the damage to just two runs. His five strikeouts in this game also vaulted him into the franchise history books, giving him a record 27 Ks in one post-season.
The pitcher who began the season at the lowest level of the minor leagues said it was an “insane experience” starting Game 1 of the World Series and striking out Dodgers two-way star Shohei Ohtani to start the game.
“It’s my goal to go out there and strike out everyone I face. So being able to start off the game on a hot note was definitely a boost to my confidence," he said.
Relievers Mason Fluharty and Seranthony Dominguez then pitched two high-leverage innings, keeping the Dodgers at bay. Ohtani managed to launch a two-run home run in the seventh inning. But in the end, the game was such a blowout that Blue Jays fans began chanting “we don’t need you” at Ohtani, who famously spurned Toronto in free agency two years ago.
'Tomorrow's tomorrow'
Still, the World Series is far from over. For the Blue Jays’ plan to really work out, they still need three more wins, starting Saturday when Kevin Gausman will start at Rogers Centre.
Manager John Schneider noted that the “coolest part” of his day was catching the ceremonial first pitch from Cito Gaston, who managed the 1992 and 1993 champion Blue Jays. He said he’d allow himself to enjoy the Game 1 win for 10 minutes.
“It feels great right now. In about 10 minutes, tomorrow’s tomorrow.”