Title: Brewers make layoff pay off with blazing fast start in Game 1 romp
Content:
MILWAUKEE -- Brewers manager Pat Murphy emptied his legendary Rolodex for advice about how to handle the layoff afforded MLB’s top two division winners in each league. Hall of Famer Joe Torre and Murphy’s old friend Joe Maddon both called the layoff "brutal."
The Brewers set about finding ways to turn the downtime into a positive for a team that won its third consecutive division title and secured the best record in baseball. They came out swinging in a 9-3 victory over the Cubs in Game 1 of the National League Division Series at American Family Field on Saturday.
They scored six times in an 11-batter first inning, turning Chicago left-hander Matthew Boyd’s start on short rest into the shortest postseason start for a Cubs pitcher since the 1945 World Series. They scored three more times in the second, then rode Freddy Peralta’s 5 2/3 innings and a well-rested bullpen to victory.
“It was an electric atmosphere, especially the first couple innings there,” Christian Yelich said. In postseason history, teams that win Game 1 at home in the 2-2-1 format have advanced 40 of 54 times (74.1%).
The Brewers' six-run first inning matched the biggest inning in postseason franchise history. Six pitches into his start, Boyd had surrendered doubles to Jackson Chourio, Brice Turang, and William Contreras, turning a 1-0 deficit into a 2-1 lead. Center fielder Blake Perkins put together an 11-pitch battle that culminated with a two-run single, forcing the Cubs into their bullpen.
In the second inning, Jackson Chourio hit a run-scoring infield single to make it 9-1, becoming the first player in postseason history with three hits by the end of the second inning. However, Chourio felt right hamstring tightness on that play and had to leave the game.
Despite the long break, the Brewers showed no signs of rust. “There’s a lot of fight in us, just grinding at-bats,” Perkins said. Murphy noted that while they wanted workouts to be "uncomfortable" and competitive, it is hard to practice with the same intensity as a real game. However, the effort in closed workouts clearly paid dividends.
