
Title: Blue Jays' bats go quiet in Game 1 loss to Mariners
Content:
TORONTO — Already during this captivating run to the American League Championship Series, the Toronto Blue Jays have conquered so many of the hills — not maxing out their talent; not winning the AL East; zero playoff victories; not taking a post-season series — that felled them in years past. So, it’s perhaps fitting then that their latest climb features the Seattle Mariners, who vanquished them in a 2022 wild-card sweep that’s now very much part of the expansion cousin’s lore.
If this is going to be a fully redemptive journey, might as well face down all the past’s hauntings. While this iteration of the Blue Jays is a more complete team than the one from three years ago, so too is this edition of the Mariners, fatigue and all after Friday night’s 15-inning Game 5 win over the Detroit Tigers and delay-filled travel Saturday.
They shook off both that and the 209 pitches thrown by seven pitchers during their thrilling clincher to get the jump on their rested rivals Sunday. Bryce Miller delivered six innings of gutsy work to outduel Kevin Gausman, while a solo homer by MVP candidate Cal Raleigh erased George Springer’s leadoff shot before two Jorge Polanco RBI singles secured a 3-1, ALCS-opening win.
The contest played out along the fault lines that will decide the best-of-seven, with Seattle’s enviable starting rotation and deep bullpen able to limit the quality contact of Toronto’s strong bat-to-ball lineup, while the Mariners’ deep lineup kept the pressure up enough to eke out enough offence against Gausman and the Blue Jays’ bullpen.
Miller allowed only two hits and three walks over his six innings before relievers Gabe Speier, Canadian Matt Brash and closer Andres Munoz went nine-up, nine-down to close out the victory, throwing a mere 100 pitches combined in the process.
“A staff like them, you know you're probably not going to get much to hit so you've got to be aggressive, but you've got to be smart at the same time,” said Springer. “So if they throw something to hit, you've got to hit it.”
Vladimir Guerrero Jr., who went 0-for-4 with a rocket liner in the first, added: “The game dictates how you approach your at-bats. He didn't have that many pitches, so trying to work the count a little bit, not be too aggressive. He (pitched) well.”
Seattle is by no means out of the water from the toll of Friday’s win, as Logan Gilbert, two days after throwing 34 pitches of relief, will start Game 2. But in grabbing the opener, they bought themselves some margin for error while also turning up the heat on rookie Trey Yesavage, who counters Monday for the Blue Jays as they seek to salvage a split before heading west for three games.
“This is going to be a hard-fought series, man, these guys will be ready for it,” said manager John Schneider. “It does not put any extra pressure on Trey. It's another game. We're trying to figure out a way to win four, and I think Trey will be up for it.”
Another wrinkle for the Blue Jays, after Bo Bichette wasn’t ready to be rostered for the series, was that Nathan Lukes left the game in the fourth inning with a contusion after fouling a ball off his right knee. Testing revealed no fracture but “his knee was pretty sore,” said Schneider.
The loss came after an ideal start for the Blue Jays before a crowd of 44,474. Gausman worked out of a jam in the first before Springer hammered Miller’s first pitch, a 97.3 m.p.h. fastball, over the wall in right to open the scoring. Miller reeled in his outing from there, trading zeroes with Gausman until Raleigh’s solo shot in the sixth, when he hammered a splitter that ran back over the bottom of the zone.
Gausman followed with a walk to Julio Rodriguez that ended his night at 76 pitches, with a Brendon Little wild pitch advancing the runner before Polanco’s go-ahead single made it a 2-1 game. Polanco’s RBI single in the eighth extended the lead and the Blue Jays didn’t have an answer from there.
“Obviously you look at the middle of their order, they've got some big thumpers, but everybody also knows the contact they put up,” Raleigh said of the Blue Jays. “They don't punch out a lot. It makes it really tough. It comes down to executing pitches, and our guys did a really good job of doing that today.”