Title: Reds' resilience falls short as season ends in Wild Card Series
Content:
LOS ANGELES -- Throughout September as they played one must-win game after another to stay in the playoff race, the Reds referred to themselves as "cockroaches" that can't be killed. In the epitome of a do-or-die Game 2 of the National League Wild Card Series on Wednesday, the 2025 Reds finally met their end. An 8-4 loss to the Dodgers meant Cincinnati's elimination from the postseason in a 2-0 sweep.
“It sucks. That’s pretty much how we sum it up," center fielder TJ Friedl said. "Who knows if this is the last time we have this group in this clubhouse the way baseball is. This might be the last time this group is together. It sucks. There’s no other way to describe it.”
Players and coaches milled around the visitor's clubhouse at Dodger Stadium hugging each other, consoling one another and then vowing to come back and go further next season.
“I think we’ve got a really good group here," first baseman/left fielder Spencer Steer said. "We’ve got a lot of talent in this room. We’ve got to go out and earn it. We’ve got to work hard this offseason and come back with a chip on our shoulder and play baseball."
Cincinnati finished the regular season 83-79 by winning eight of its last 11 games to get the final NL playoff spot. The realization hit that the next time any bouncing back can happen isn't until 2026.
“Ultimately we didn’t do what we set out to do, which was win the World Series," said closer Emilio Pagán. "But there’s something to be said for a group of young players to get their first taste of it. While we’re not happy with just getting to the playoffs, you look at some of the best teams. You see what it takes to get in that atmosphere and then you see a continued run of success."
The Reds have lost a franchise-record eight consecutive postseason games dating back to 2012. Starting pitcher Zack Littell was superb through his first two scoreless innings and worked out of a jam after allowing a run in the third inning on a Mookie Betts RBI single that trimmed the Cincinnati lead to 2-1.
Littell was given a fourth inning when the Dodgers rallied. It started when Max Muncy hit a grounder for a single. With one out, Kiké Hernández hit an RBI double to tie the game. Miguel Rojas followed with an RBI single and the go-ahead run. Nick Lodolo took over, but the game got away from Cincinnati during a four-run Dodgers sixth inning against Nick Martinez. The biggest blow was a two-run double to center field by Teoscar Hernández that made it a five-run lead.
Manager Terry Francona was absorbing the quick ending of his first season with the Reds. "The season doesn't just wind down," Francona said. "It just comes to a crashing halt. And that's kind of hard sometimes to make your peace with. I thought our group from day one was a special group. We did not accomplish what we set out to do. That takes away nothing from what me and the coaches feel about those guys."
