
Title: Blue Jays use collective effort to eliminate Yankees, advance to ALCS
Content:
NEW YORK — Essentially, a bullpen day is utilizing relievers in a game of counting outs during which, in the words of John Schneider, “you try to thread the needle a little bit.”
An apt analogy for trying to steal three outs with one arm, five or six with another, eventually getting to 27 in a positive way. Executed well, they’re an effective tool, and the Los Angeles Dodgers used four of them en route to a World Series title last year. Still, for the Toronto Blue Jays on Wednesday night, running one while trying to close out the New York Yankees without a decisive fifth game and advancing to the American League Championship Series in the process, felt somewhat like trying to stuff a climbing rope through a needle’s eye.
No matter, as once again, the Blue Jays used collective contributions from across their roster, as they so often have in this convention-defying season, to do precisely that, stitching their way into baseball’s final four like the deftest of tailors with a 5-2 victory.
The first team through the division series round, they’ll now host the winner of Friday’s Game 5 between the Seattle Mariners and Detroit Tigers in the ALCS opener Sunday, having dispatched the AL East rival that finished with the same 94-68 record and celebrated on the Yankee Stadium field.
“Just such a picture of resilience, determination, team effort, so many of the values that are easy to celebrate and you aspire to when you think about building an organization, not just a team,” Blue Jays president and CEO Mark Shapiro said. “These guys, they really personify that … And I was proud. That's how it felt. That and the silence in Yankee Stadium, that's the greatest sound. I've heard it twice in my career. And as much as I would always want to celebrate at home, this would be the second-best place in the world, because there's nothing better than hearing complete silence and just 30 guys in the middle of the field. It's unbelievable.”
Ernie Clement, who had two more hits and scored twice to finish the ALDS 9-for-14 with five runs and five RBIs, echoed those sentiments. “It's just a beautiful thing that we did this in New York,” he said. “They have such a good team and to beat a great ball club, it's really sweet, especially because they're in our division. To do it on their home field feels good.”
The Blue Jays started with four outs from opener Louis Varland, who pitched in each of the four games. Mason Fluharty followed with three outs. Then came a wrinkle with five outs from Seranthony Dominguez, unusually entering during the third inning for a pocket beginning with Aaron Judge.
Eric Lauer, taking over after George Springer’s go-ahead sacrifice fly in the top of the fifth, followed with another five outs. Yariel Rodriguez got Jazz Chisholm Jr. with two on and two out to end the sixth and, after Nathan Lukes’ two-run single opened some more breathing room, Brendon Little threw a clean seventh. After Myles Straw added an RBI single in the top half of the eighth, Braydon Fisher got two outs but left two on for Jeff Hoffman, who escaped the eighth and then worked around a Judge RBI single to silence a crowd of 47,823.
Combined, the bullpen allowed two runs on six hits and six walks with 10 strikeouts.
The tapestry finale capped a series featuring monster performances from both Vladimir Guerrero Jr. and Aaron Judge. Guerrero reached base 11 times and drove in nine runs during the series, while Judge reached 13 times while driving in five.
“You're going to come across great players in the post-season, that's the reality of it,” said Yankees manager Aaron Boone. “(Guerrero) is one of the great hitters in the game and someone that we've got to make sure we execute at the highest level if we're going to have success against him.”
Blue Jays manager John Schneider said the impact both made “has been as advertised,” calling it “good for baseball.” But “more importantly, you can't get caught up in that too much,” he added. “We've talked about nine-on-one. We've talked about 13 guys contributing every single day. The minute that you feel like you have to do it all yourself is when things start to go the wrong way.”
Springer led off the game with a double and scored on Guerrero’s RBI single off Cam Schlittler for a 1-0 lead in the first, which stood until Ryan McMahon’s solo shot in the third tied it up. Clement opened the fifth with a single and Andres Gimenez followed with a chopper up the middle that just sneaked past Jazz Chisholm to put men on the corners. Springer’s fly ball to centre made it a 2-1 game.
Clement started another rally in the seventh with a base hit and again took third when another Gimenez chopper up the middle glanced off Chisholm’s glove for an error. Both scored on a single from Lukes. The Blue Jays tacked on another in the eighth when Alejandro Kirk doubled, advanced on a Daulton Varsho flyout, and scored when Straw dunked an 0-2 single to right.
“Credit to the Blue Jays and the year they've had. They beat us this series, simple as that,” said Boone.
Lukes noted before the game: “It’s over with – we’re good at turning the page.” The Blue Jays showed just that, and now it’s on to the next round.