Title: With the World his stage, rookie puts Blue Jays on cusp of title
Content:
LOS ANGELES -- Behind rookie Trey Yesavage’s historic start and back-to-back blasts from Davis Schneider and Vladimir Guerrero Jr., the Toronto Blue Jays downed the defending champion Dodgers 6-1 in Game 5 of the World Series on Wednesday night.
The 22-year-old Yesavage, who began the year in Single-A and was summoned to the big leagues on Sept. 15, allowed just one run over seven innings. He struck out 12—the most by a rookie in a World Series game—and walked none. He became the first pitcher in World Series history to record that many strikeouts with zero walks, doing so in only his eighth MLB start.
“He's just completely composed,” veteran Chris Bassitt said. “The moment’s not too big for him, which is crazy for how young he is. He's very, very calm under pressure. It’s unbelievable.”
The Blue Jays' bats ambushed two-time Cy Young winner Blake Snell immediately. Schneider, leading off for the injured George Springer, hit a first-pitch home run. Two pitches later, Guerrero followed with his own blast. It was the first time in World Series history that a game began with back-to-back home runs.
Yesavage remained in command throughout the night. He became the first rookie in postseason history with multiple outings of at least 10 strikeouts and only the second pitcher ever to record at least 10 strikeouts in the first five innings of a World Series game, joining Sandy Koufax.
Toronto added insurance in the fourth when Daulton Varsho tripled and scored on an Ernie Clement sacrifice fly. They broke the game open in the seventh when a series of wild pitches and a Bo Bichette RBI single extended the lead to 5-1. The Jays' pitching held the L.A. bats to a .161 average across Games 4 and 5.
The Blue Jays head home to Rogers Centre with a chance to clinch their first championship since 1993 on Friday. In series with the current 2-3-2 format, teams taking a 3-2 lead by winning Game 5 on the road have won the series 20 of 27 times (74.1%).
