Title: Schwarber's pair of HRs (including 455-footer!) ignites Phillies’ NLDS Game 3 win
Content:
LOS ANGELES -- Sometimes one good swing is all it takes to end a slump -- or, perhaps, turn around an entire series. Especially when it's a swing like the one Kyle Schwarber delivered in the fourth inning of the Phillies' 8-2 victory in a must-win Game 3 of the National League Division Series on Wednesday night at Dodger Stadium.
With Schwarber hitless for the series and the Phillies hitless on the night, the slugger unleashed a vintage 455-foot blast. The ball left his bat at a scorching 117.2 mph on its way sailing entirely over the right-field seats. “It's ridiculous how far that ball went,” said Phillies shortstop Trea Turner.
Bryce Harper and Alec Bohm followed with back-to-back singles. Harper eventually scored when a throw from center field skipped away, and Bohm scored on Brandon Marsh’s sacrifice fly to cap off a three-run inning that turned a 1-0 deficit into a 3-1 lead.
Schwarber now has five career postseason home runs that traveled at least 450 feet—the most in the Majors since Statcast began tracking in 2015. His homer snapped an 0-for-22 slump dating back to the regular season. Schwarber added a second home run off Clayton Kershaw as part of a five-run eighth inning that blew the game open. Those two homers raised his career postseason total to 23, moving him ahead of Bernie Williams for third-most all-time, trailing only Manny Ramirez (29) and Jose Altuve (27).
“I've been very fortunate being in a lot of postseason games in my career, and it's just the best form of baseball,” Schwarber said. “But I sincerely believe that it doesn't matter -- you could be hitting .100 or be hitting .500. Did you win the game at the end of the day? That's all that matters.”
The Phillies managed to extend their season on a night when they finished with eight runs and 12 hits, a sharp contrast to their combined six runs in the first two games. Manager Rob Thomson noted, “I think the Schwarber home run just sort of woke everybody up and it got a lot of energy going in the dugout.”