Title: Blue Jays' margin for error narrows after blowout loss to Mariners
Content:
TORONTO — The ability to turn the page on a bad outing, to flush the previous day and reset as if nothing happened, that the Toronto Blue Jays have prided themselves on is really going to be tested now that their season is on the line.
Down 2-0 to the Seattle Mariners in an American League Championship Series rapidly slipping away from them after Monday evening’s 10-3 thumping, their margin-for-error in the best-of-seven isn’t down to zero, but it’s pretty close. History isn’t on their side, as of the 93 times teams have previously gone up 2-0, they’ve won 78 times, with that total sitting at 26 of 30 for clubs that take the first two games on the road.
The bigger issue is that the Mariners simply executed at a much higher level over 24 fateful hours before a pair of stunned sellout crowds at Rogers Centre. The Blue Jays couldn’t pin down a Seattle offence taking its best damage swings, while their lineup hit a wall against a dominant pitching staff — a bad recipe anytime, but especially in the post-season.
“It's just all about that singular day,” veteran Chris Bassitt, who looked strong while throwing 1.2 innings of clean relief, said of the approach needed for his team’s difficult situation. “You can't really look and say, this game counts for four or five. You have to go out there and expect that if we play to our gameplan, we'll win. And that's it. You can't add anything more to it than that. Just trust. Trust in our gameplan. Trust in who we are.”
A shift west gives the Blue Jays a chance to catch their breath Tuesday before hitting T-Mobile Park for Wednesday’s Game 3, when Shane Bieber starts against George Kirby and tries to pull his team back into this series.
“Looking at the difference in these first two, slug hasn't been there for us, has been there for them, and you never know when it's going to turn,” said manager John Schneider. “They've got a good pitching staff. They're featuring some good stuff. I want these guys to continue to feel like they're on the attack. It's what we've done this entire season. Hopefully the luck turns and hopefully the slug shows up when we get there.”
Trey Yesavage, making the fifth big-league start of his career but second in the post-season after his dominant 11-strikeout outing versus the New York Yankees in the ALDS, couldn’t replicate his past success this time. After hitting Randy Arozarena and walking Cal Raleigh, Julio Rodriguez yanked a middle-up splitter over the wall in left field for an early 3-0 lead.
The Blue Jays pulled themselves back into the game during the bottom half against Logan Gilbert. George Springer doubled and scored when Josh Naylor tossed away a relay, while Alejandro Kirk’s RBI single later in the frame made it a one-run game. In the next inning, Nathan Lukes, who had to leave Game 1 after fouling a ball off his right knee, ripped an RBI single that pulled the Blue Jays level.
“Giving up three without an out recorded and then the offence coming through and tying it up there in the second inning, it's a huge momentum-gainer,” said Yesavage.
It didn’t stay there. Yesavage put up zeroes in the third and fourth innings, but with his velocity dipping, he was pulled in the fifth. Louis Varland entered with the bases loaded and one out. Jorge Polanco caught a down-and-away 98.1 m.p.h. fastball and clubbed it over the wall in right-centre to open a 6-3 lead.
J.P. Crawford’s RBI single in the sixth extended the advantage before Crawford’s sacrifice fly followed Naylor’s homer in the seventh for a 10-3 edge. For an offence that managed only eight hits in two games, only one of them coming from the third inning onwards, that was far too much to overcome.
“Obviously we need to get better offensively,” Vladimir Guerrero Jr., who is 0-for-7 with a walk in this series after crushing the Yankees last round, said. “For example, myself, I had big at-bats there and couldn't come through. We don't like the position that we are in right now, but they've been playing great baseball, too. The only thing we can do is just get better, go to Seattle and try to win some games somehow.”
The Blue Jays will use Tuesday’s downtime to rest their relievers and outfielder Anthony Santander, who was a late scratch due to lower back tightness. Lukes, who had three hits despite his knee getting progressively worse, said he doesn't see himself having limitations going forward.
“These guys don't want the season to end, you know what I mean?” Schneider said. “Whatever the outcome is, I feel like these guys all want to get an Airbnb somewhere and hang out for the winter. That means a lot. They have shown they're really good at moving on to the next thing, which is hard to do. You go out and you play your game, you compete your ass off, and you see what happens.”