Title: Tigers seize control of ALDS in 11-inning opener, with ace in the hole
Subtitle: McKinstry's single up the middle lifts Detroit over Seattle ahead of Skubal's Game 2 start
Content:
SEATTLE -- The Tigers have been on the road for nearly two weeks. They are bringing a new meaning to the nickname Gritty Tigs.
“Everybody's coming in trying to get laundry done,” reliever Tommy Kahnle said after the Tigers’ 3-2 win in 11 innings over the Mariners to open their AL Division Series on Saturday night. “Guys are running out of underwear. We're running out of socks. It's been interesting. And we're all just riding it, enjoying the moment.”
They are running short on clean clothes, but they are not running short on fortitude. The Tigers’ traveling road show had to bear the brunt of the noise from a sellout crowd of 47,290 that echoed through T-Mobile Park. They had just weathered the hostile crowd in Cleveland for three games; this was another level.
“This atmosphere is unbelievable,” reliever Tyler Holton said. “I haven't quite seen an atmosphere like this, just from every pitch, being loud. Whether they were pitching or hitting, it didn't matter. It was pretty awesome to see and experience. But this is playoff baseball. This is what you want.”
The only feeling better than hearing the sheer noise of this crowd at T-Mobile Park was silencing it. Besides Mariners stars Julio Rodríguez and Cal Raleigh, who had three hits each, Detroit held the rest of their lineup to a combined 0-for-28 mark.
“Silencing a crowd, there's probably no better feeling,” said first baseman Spencer Torkelson, who scored the go-ahead run on Zach McKinstry’s two-out single through the middle in the 11th inning. “It's a special feeling, especially because it's not easy when the crowd's insanely loud. So when it's quiet, it's like, 'Whew.' You can think.”
The Tigers weathered the frenetic energy of the Mariners’ postseason opener, the electric fastball of George Kirby, and the formidable arms of the Seattle bullpen. After Saturday’s victory, they have a chance to ride the mighty left arm of Tarik Skubal and take a commanding lead in the best-of-five series back to Comerica Park, where they haven’t played a game since Sept. 21. In Division Series with the current 2-2-1 format, teams to win Game 1 on the road have advanced 34 of 46 times (73.9%).
“It's huge,” outfielder Kerry Carpenter said. “To get a win before the best pitcher in the world pitches is pretty special, and I feel like Skubal is made for these moments. So he's going to be at his best... we're really confident in our guy because he should be because he's the only one with back-to-back Cy Youngs.”
“You may have seen players in the same clothes,” manager A.J. Hinch said. “You might see, you know, a dry cleaning bill or two. The clubbies might have to pick you up with a few extra cycles of laundry, but this is the playoffs, and this is where you want to be. If you have to be on the road for 30 more days to win the World Series, you take it.”
Detroit relievers covered seven innings in relief of starter Troy Melton. Will Vest retired the M’s in order in the ninth and 10th to put the Tigers in position for the lead. Keider Montero finished the game for his first MLB save.
The cavalcade of relievers bought time for the Tigers’ offense to come through. Riley Greene’s single was the Tigers’ final hit until 22 batters later, when McKinstry stepped to the plate in the 11th. Carlos Vargas had struck out Wenceel Pérez and Dillon Dingler, but McKinstry — 0-for-17 since his last hit — jumped a 99.6 mph sinker and sent a ground ball through the middle to send Torkelson charging around third.
“Looking for a sinker there,” McKinstry said. “He throws it a lot. I got one and was able to get the job done.”
“We didn’t steal it,” Hinch said. “We earned it.