Title: Blue Jays lose heartbreaker in Game 7 of World Series as Dodgers complete epic comeback
Content:
The Toronto Blue Jays lost Game 7 of the World Series to the Los Angeles Dodgers 5-4 in 11 innings on Saturday in Toronto, marking the Dodgers’ second straight championship. The Blue Jays were vying for their first title in 32 years, but Will Smith’s 11th-inning home run to left field ultimately proved to be the difference.
During the regular season, the Blue Jays led MLB with 49 comeback wins, but they were unable to muster one last rally. “We had our chances. We had our chances to beat them soundly. But we didn’t. And that’s baseball,” Blue Jays manager John Schneider said.
The Blue Jays were two outs from glory in the ninth inning when the Dodgers' No. 9 hitter Miguel Rojas hit a shocking home run to tie the game at four against Blue Jays closer Jeff Hoffman. “It’s supposed to end differently,” Hoffman said. “I cost everybody in here a World Series ring.”
Following the Rojas home run, the Blue Jays loaded the bases in the bottom of the ninth, but a groundout and a deep flyout prevented the winning run from scoring. The Jays escaped a bases-loaded jam in the 10th before Smith’s decisive home run in the 11th.
Even in the final frame, Toronto had opportunities. Vladimir Guerrero Jr. led off the 11th with a double and advanced to third on a sacrifice bunt. Addison Barger walked to put the winning run on base, but Alejandro Kirk hit into a game-ending double play.
Dodgers ace Yoshinobu Yamamoto, who pitched one day after tossing six strong innings in Game 6, earned the win and was named World Series MVP. Dodgers manager Dave Roberts called Yamamoto’s performance "unheard of," citing his flawless delivery and unwavering will.
Following the loss, John Schneider held his first team meeting of the year to thank his players. “I said ‘thank you’ probably about 10 times," Schneider said. "This is a group that I'm never going to forget.”
The game saw early momentum for Toronto when Bo Bichette, playing through a knee injury, hit a three-run home run in the third inning. The Dodgers slowly clawed back with sacrifice flies in the fourth and sixth. The Blue Jays added a run in the bottom of the sixth when Ernie Clement scored on an Andrés Giménez double. Clement finished the postseason with an MLB-record 30 hits.
The Dodgers continued their comeback with a Max Muncy home run in the eighth inning off rookie Trey Yesavage, setting the stage for Rojas’ ninth-inning heroics. In the 11th, Schneider turned to Shane Bieber, who recorded two quick outs before surrendering the home run to Will Smith.
“We win and we lose together. That’s why we were such a great team all year,” Bichette said.