Title: Dodgers take 3-0 series edge by beating Brewers at their own game
Content:
LOS ANGELES -- Give them an inch, and they'll take a mile. That philosophy is a big part of how the Brewers surged to the best record in baseball this year. But through the first three games of the NL Championship Series, the Dodgers have been able to contain Brewers ball -- and at times, even use it against them.
"That's kind of what they thrive on," Max Muncy said. "Creating havoc, creating chaos on the infield. Just trying to play as clean of baseball as we can, it's been the difference, I think."
The Dodgers are just one win away from returning to the World Series after beating the Brewers, 3-1, in Game 3 of the NLCS on Thursday afternoon at Dodger Stadium. After being swept by Milwaukee in the season series, Los Angeles now has the chance to sweep its way to back-to-back NL pennants. A big reason why is that the Dodgers have beaten the Brewers at their own game.
Flashing the leather
The Brewers looked the closest they had to playing their style of baseball in the second inning. Caleb Durbin sliced a one-out triple, and Jake Bauers tied the game by punching a single through a drawn-in infield. But before the Brewers could keep rolling, Muncy's quick thinking helped the Dodgers. Muncy made a slick sliding stop on a Joey Ortiz grounder, firing a strike to the plate, where Will Smith had plenty of time to tag Bauers out and keep the game tied.
Seven innings later, with Roki Sasaki on the mound to close out the game, Mookie Betts made another big play. The Gold Glove finalist at shortstop ranged to the edge of the outfield grass to snare an Andrew Vaughn grounder, making a jump throw to first to beat Vaughn to the bag on one hop.
Winning with small ball
When the Dodgers rallied to take the lead, they emulated what the Brewers do well by being aggressive on the basepaths. After opener Aaron Ashby's outing ended, L.A. hitters struggled against rookie Jacob Misiorowski. But in the sixth, Smith broke through for a single and Freddie Freeman followed with a walk. The table was set for Tommy Edman, who drove a slider up the middle for a base hit. Smith scored from second, and Freeman went first to third.
After striking out Teoscar Hernández, Abner Uribe moved to pick off Edman at first base. The throw was wild, and Freeman was able to score a key insurance run from third.
Keeping the bases empty
The best method of preventing Brewers ball? Don't let them get on base at all. Blake Snell and Yoshinobu Yamamoto set the tone in Milwaukee, and Tyler Glasnow and the bullpen kept it up in L.A. Glasnow scattered three hits and three walks across 5 2/3 innings. Alex Vesia, Blake Treinen, Anthony Banda and Sasaki combined to allow just one hit across the final 3 1/3 innings.
"If you would have told me the Dodgers would score 10 runs in three games, what would be the score? … You wouldn't say 0-3," Brewers manager Pat Murphy said. "But we haven't got the clutch hit. We've been a little bit foreign to how we've played in terms of contact."
