Title: Blue Jays unravel in eighth inning as Mariners seize ALCS lead
Content:
SEATTLE – There’s a case to be made that the leverage swing between a win and a loss was higher for the Toronto Blue Jays entering Game 4 of the American League Championship Series than heading into Game 5. After all, think of how different Friday afternoon at a rocking T-Mobile Park would have felt if they were down 3-1 instead of level at 2-2. Still, no matter how you contort your way through the mental acrobatics of the post-season, manager John Schneider urges staying off the tightrope. “At this point every game is a series, you know what I mean? And you literally never know,” he said.
The next day now is Sunday at Rogers Centre and is ever a big one after the Blue Jays, six outs from heading home with a series lead, instead must shake off Cal Raleigh’s game-tying homer and Eugenio Suraez’s grand slam during the eighth inning of a gutting 6-2 loss that left the Seattle Mariners a win away from the World Series. What looked to be a third straight win unravelled when they took a 2-1 lead into that eighth that was immediately relitigated angrily and is sure to remain a flash point until Game 6 begins, with questions about George Springer’s right knee adding an extra twist.
Still, in contrast to the still and sombre air in the Blue Jays clubhouse after a 10-3 loss left them down 2-0 when the series shifted west, the vibe was far more defiant ahead of this cross-continent flight.
“I don't want these guys to crawl into a hole. That's not who we are,” Schneider said. “So we’ll get after it on Sunday. We'll be ready to play. I wouldn't have it any other way with this group. Our backs are going to be against the wall? Great. We don't give a (expletive).”
Returning to Toronto, where the Blue Jays posted baseball’s best home record at 54-27, “is right where we want to be,” said Ernie Clement, whose RBI single in the sixth cashed in an Alejandro Kirk double for the go-ahead run. “That was kind of our goal coming here – get back to Toronto. Obviously we wanted this game to go a little different, but we're in a great spot. We've got a chance. That's all we need.”
Kevin Gausman, who allowed one run over 5.2 innings to put the Blue Jays in position to make it three straight, echoed that sentiment. “Tough loss, obviously, to lose the way we did. But these guys are resilient. There's no other group I'd believe in more than these guys in that room.”
To force a decisive seventh game, the Blue Jays will once again make an immense ask of rookie Trey Yesavage. The shift actually began in the top half of the eighth when Clement sent a Gabe Speier slider 363 feet to left where Randy Arozarena made a leaping catch against the left-field wall to steal a likely home run. Worse, though, is that “defence leads to offence in many ways,” and that’s precisely what happened in the bottom half.
With switch-hitters Raleigh and Jorge Polanco plus lefty Josh Naylor due, Schneider made a polarizing turn to Brendon Little, the groundball-machine lefty with sometimes erratic command. He fell behind Raleigh 2-0 before leaving a fastball over the plate that Raleigh lofted over the same left-field wall Clement didn’t clear to tie the game.
The troubles compounded when he then walked Polanco and Naylor to end his outing, and Seranthony Dominguez proceeded to hit Arozarena, loading the bases for Suarez, who opened the scoring in the second with a solo shot and then capped it with the grand slam.
“I wanted that part of the lineup to see different guys,” Schneider said of his thinking. “Little’s been one of our best pitchers in big spots. Tough guy to elevate. Cal's a really good hitter. I get it, man. After that, you’ve got to settle down and throw strikes, too. Second-guessing is part of it. Thought about it, for sure. Unfortunately, it didn't work out.”
Worse still is that Springer, whose RBI double in the fifth inning tied the game 1-1, was hit on the right kneecap by a 95.6 m.p.h. fastball from Bryan Woo in the seventh and had to leave the game. While initial X-Rays were negative, he’ll undergo further tests once the team arrives in Toronto. Adding to the frustration of the moment is that a sellout crowd of 46,758 cheered when Springer was hit and then booed him as he limped to first base trying to stay in the game.
Schneider said fans “that were booing him should take a look in the mirror,” while Clement used an expletive to describe the reaction before adding that “I don't know how you boo somebody who's down on the ground hurt. That's pretty classless.”
The next time they take the field, the Blue Jays will be before their own fans and just as they did in levelling the series 2-2, they’ll once again have to overcome some unfavourable, if less daunting, odds. Home teams that win Game 5 to take a 3-2 post-season lead have proceeded to win the series 23 of 37 times. Whether the leverage was higher in Game 4 or Game 5 doesn’t matter now that maximum leverage is here, with their next two outings win or go home.