Title: Strahm 'gut punched' by backbreaking HR in Phils' Game 1 loss
Content:
PHILADELPHIA -- Matt Strahm couldn’t believe it. He shook his head as Teoscar Hernández rounded the bases in the seventh inning on Saturday night at Citizens Bank Park. A few minutes later, he shouted into his glove as he walked off the field.
“I got gut punched on missing two pitches,” Strahm said.
He had nearly cleaned up a nasty mess in the Phillies’ 5-3 loss to the Dodgers in Game 1 of the National League Division Series. He entered the game with runners on first and second and no outs, but he struck out Shohei Ohtani looking on a fastball and got Mookie Betts to pop out on the infield. If he could only get Hernández.
Strahm missed with a first-pitch cutter for a ball. Phillies catcher J.T. Realmuto then set up inside for a 1-0 fastball, but Strahm threw the pitch on the outer half of the plate. Hernández sent the pitch to right-center field for a stunning three-run home run to give the Dodgers a two-run lead, and eventually a 1-0 lead in the best-of-five series.
“This was never going to be easy,” Kyle Schwarber said.
The Phillies will spend Sunday looking at what went wrong, knowing they must win Game 2 on Monday night if they stand any chance of extending their season. In Division Series with the current 2-2-1 format, teams to win Game 1 on the road have advanced 34 of 46 times (73.9 percent).
“We’ve just got to dust it off,” Realmuto said. “It’s a five-game series. There’s still plenty of opportunity for us to go out and play good baseball. We’ve got to refocus tomorrow, watch video, see things we could’ve done differently and then come out and play better on Monday.”
The Phillies must reverse a troubling trend in a ballpark that an opposing coach once called “four hours of hell” in the postseason. They have lost four of their last five postseason games at Citizens Bank Park, dating to Game 6 of the 2023 NL Championship Series.
The Phillies took a 3-0 lead against Dodgers right-hander Shohei Ohtani in the second inning. Alec Bohm walked and Brandon Marsh singled to start the inning. Realmuto’s triple to right-center field scored both runners to make it 2-0. He scored on Harrison Bader’s sacrifice fly. But they couldn’t add on. The top of the Phillies’ lineup -- Trea Turner, Schwarber and Bryce Harper -- went a combined 1-for-11 with one walk and six strikeouts in Game 1. The team was 1-for-7 with runners in scoring position.
Hernández didn’t miss his pitch, but it shouldn’t have gotten to that point. David Robertson got the final out of the sixth after Cristopher Sánchez had allowed two runs to cut the Phillies’ lead to one. Robertson started the seventh, but he put the first two runners on base.
“I put him in a terrible situation,” Robertson said. “Just poor pitching on my part. He almost did the unthinkable and got out of it.”
Off the bat, Strahm and Bader didn't initially think it was a home run. “Off the bat, I didn’t think it was going to be a homer,” Strahm said. However, Realmuto noted, “You know, off his bat, it sounded like trouble to me.”
There was talk after the game that Dodgers center fielder Andy Pages, who was on second base, might have been signaling Strahm’s pitches to Hernández at the plate. Strahm dismissed the suggestion. It’s more likely that Pages was signaling something about where Realmuto was setting up. No matter. The Phillies scored three early runs off Ohtani, who went 0-for-4 with four strikeouts. They had a three-run lead in the sixth but could not hold it.
