Title: Red Sox jump Yankees' bullpen to win Game 1 of Wild Card Series
Content:
Garrett Crochet retired 17 consecutive batters in a sparkling pitching performance, and pinch-hitter Masataka Yoshida lined a two-run single off reliever Luke Weaver that sent the Boston Red Sox past the New York Yankees 3-1 on Tuesday night in their AL Wild Card Series opener.
New York loaded the bases with nobody out in the ninth inning, but All-Star closer Aroldis Chapman pitched out of the jam against his former team. Boston is 10-4 versus its longtime rival this year and halfway to winning the best-of-three playoff.
Game 2 is Wednesday night in the Bronx again, with Aaron Judge and the Yankees needing a victory to extend their season.
Crochet gave up only Anthony Volpe's second-inning homer and improved to 4-0 against the Yankees this year, throwing a career-high 117 pitches in a marquee duel of ace left-handers with Max Fried. Crochet struck out 11 and walked none over 7 2/3 innings while allowing four hits.
Pitching with a 2-1 lead after Yoshida's go-ahead hit in the seventh, Crochet extended his streak of retired batters until Volpe singled with one out in the eighth. Crochet's final pitch was his fastest at 100.2 mph, which Austin Wells took for a called third strike.
Chapman retired José Caballero on a flyout to finish the eighth before Alex Bregman, playing his 100th post-season game, hit an RBI double in the ninth off David Bednar.
Paul Goldschmidt, Judge and Cody Bellinger loaded the bases with consecutive singles starting the bottom half, but Chapman recovered to get the save when he struck out Giancarlo Stanton, retired Jazz Chisholm Jr. on a flyout and fanned Trent Grisham with a 101 mph fastball.
Boston improved to 13-12 against the Yankees in the post-season, winning nine of the last 10 meetings. Crochet threw the most pitches in a post-season game since Washington's Stephen Strasburg tossed 117 against St. Louis in 2019.
Fried pitched shutout ball for 6 1/3 innings but a Yankees bullpen that had a 4.37 ERA during the regular season, 23rd among the 30 teams, faltered again. Weaver relieved with no one on, got ahead of Ceddanne Rafaela 0-2 in the count, then walked him on 11 pitches. Nick Sogard grounded a hit into right-centre, hustling to second when Judge didn't sprint to pick up the ball. Yoshida lined the next pitch, a fastball at the letters, to centre for a 2-1 lead.
Weaver had a 1.05 ERA in his first 24 appearances, was sidelined for 2 1/2 weeks by a strained left hamstring, then had a 5.31 ERA over his final 40 games.
Fried got 19 swings and misses, striking out six and walking three while allowing four hits in 6 1/3 innings. He escaped a second-and-third, two-out jam in the fourth, then first-and-second, one-out trouble in the fifth.
Volpe, who slumped to a .212 average this year, put the Yankees ahead when he drove a sinker to the opposite field, where the ball landed a half-dozen rows into the right-field seats. Volpe’s drive would have been a home run in all but one big league stadium: Fenway Park.
Up next
Yankees LHP Carlos Rodón (18-9, 3.09 ERA) and Red Sox RHP Brayan Bello (11-9, 3.35) start Wednesday.