Title: Comeback kids: Jays get to Ohtani, Dodgers' bullpen to even up Fall Classic
Content:
LOS ANGELES -- It’s one thing to lose and quite another to lose over the course of six hours and 39 minutes. That’s a draining defeat, the kind of loss that can invite all kinds of second-guessing, self-loathing and seeds of doubt. The Toronto Blue Jays famously suffered just such a loss in Game 3 of the World Series, and, despite their best arguments to the contrary, it could have broken them.
Instead, a Blue Jays team that has crafted comebacks all year might have just registered its best one yet in Game 4 on Tuesday night at Dodger Stadium – a convincing 6-2 victory over the Dodgers that showcased this club’s mental and physical resurgence and put this best-of-seven World Series all-square at two wins apiece. The Jays now know, no matter Wednesday’s Game 5 result, they’ll get to host a Game 6 at Rogers Centre on Friday night.
“We are a team of uncommon men,” said Jays third baseman Ernie Clement. “I think a normal team would have folded today. And we're not normal. I think we're the best team in baseball.”
Making matters more complicated for Toronto was the presence of Shohei Ohtani – the same guy who reached base a postseason-record nine times a night earlier – on the mound. But the Blue Jays thrived by doing what they arguably do best: falling behind early. The Blue Jays led the Majors with 49 comeback wins this season. This time, the early deficit came on a Kiké Hernández sacrifice fly to score Max Muncy in the second against Shane Bieber.
The comeback happened in the third, when Nathan Lukes singled off Ohtani with one out and Vladimir Guerrero Jr. stepped up. The Blue Jays’ franchise face demolished a 2-1 sweeper for a two-run homer. It was Vladdy’s seventh homer of this postseason, giving him the Toronto record for postseason homers in a career.
“I respect Ohtani a lot,” said Guerrero. “But when we are between those two lines, we're competing. It felt good that tonight I could hit that homer against him.”
Bieber, acquired at the Trade Deadline, went 5 1/3 innings, allowing only the one run on four hits. When Schneider pulled Bieber in the sixth, rookie lefty Mason Fluharty struck out Tommy Edman to preserve the lead.
Ohtani pitched into the seventh but finally looked gassed. Daulton Varsho lined a leadoff single and Clement ripped a double to put two runners in scoring position. “It was regrettable,” Ohtani said, “that I wasn’t able to finish that inning.”
The Blue Jays punished the Dodgers' bullpen. Andrés Giménez drove in Varsho with a single, and Clement later scored on a Ty France groundout. The inning continued against Blake Treinen, who served up RBI singles to Bo Bichette and Addison Barger to make it 6-1. Chris Bassitt provided strong relief work in the seventh and eighth, and the Dodgers’ late rally attempt against Louis Varland came up short.
“When you get here, you feel a little bit flat, but we found the energy,” Clement said. “It's not too hard to get ready to go for a World Series game in Dodger Stadium. So we found it.”
