Title: Crew's magical year ends in NLCS at hands of Dodgers, Ohtani
Content:
LOS ANGELES – The 2025 Brewers will be remembered for overcoming a historically lopsided 0-4 start to lead the Majors with 97 victories. They will be remembered for winning a third consecutive NL Central title, qualifying for the postseason for the seventh time in eight years, and vanquishing the rival Cubs in a roller-coaster NLDS.
However, they will also be remembered for running into the Shohei Ohtani-led Dodgers and getting swept with a 5-1 loss Friday at Dodger Stadium in Game 4 of the NLCS.
“We aren’t that far. Not as far as it seems,” Christian Yelich said after watching the Dodgers celebrate. “I still believe one day that’s going to be us out there.”
The dynamic Brewers offense never showed up in the NLCS. The team scored only one run in each of the four games, totaling 14 hits. They mustered only 16 at-bats with runners in scoring position compared to the Dodgers’ 35. The Brewers’ .118 batting average was the lowest in MLB history for any postseason series of at least three games. Their .384 OPS was the third lowest in any postseason series of at least four games.
“We obviously had some guys not feeling their best at the plate. We had a couple of them at the same time, myself included,” said Yelich, who was 1-for-14 in the series. “There are some great pitchers who had some awesome performances, and you combine that with some guys scuffling, and it’s going to be tough to score runs.”
Brewers manager Pat Murphy wondered whether his club was “zapped” by the hard-fought five-game series against the Cubs. “You have to have been part of it to understand how it really zapped a lot out of us emotionally,” Murphy said. “Then the pitching performances by the Dodgers basically put the hammer down.”
In Game 4, Ohtani’s two-way brilliance took center stage. On the mound, he struck out Jackson Chourio, Yelich, and William Contreras in order in the first inning. At the plate, he led off the bottom of the first with a 116.5 mph home run off Jose Quintana, becoming the first pitcher in MLB history to hit a leadoff home run in a game. He added a second home run in the fourth inning and a third in the seventh. Ohtani carried a shutout into the seventh inning while hitting more home runs (three) than he surrendered Brewers hits (two).
“What Ohtani showed us tonight was amazing. A lot of credit to him. That guy is unreal,” Quintana said. “They were better than us in this series. They pitched well and they did the right things.”
Milwaukee’s World Series drought will persist for another season; they haven’t reached the Fall Classic since 1982. Despite the end, Brewers ace Freddy Peralta focused on the season's achievements. “Nobody believed in us from Day 1 because we didn’t have the big names,” Peralta said. “And look, we ended up with the best record in the Major Leagues. It taught me a lot, that you don’t have to have the biggest names to play and win games.”
