Title: Yamamoto’s gem, pair of solo shots carry Dodgers in Game 2
Content:
TORONTO -- Yoshinobu Yamamoto readied himself to receive a short toss from his third baseman, but Max Muncy had too much respect for what Yamamoto had done with that ball to just heave it into the air. Instead, Muncy drew closer to the mound where Yamamoto had made his mastery and hand-delivered the ball directly into the hurler’s Dodger blue glove. It was Yamamoto’s game, his moment, and, yes, his ball.
Behind Yamamoto’s complete-game gem and the solo shots swatted by Muncy and catcher Will Smith in a decisive seventh inning, the Dodgers evened up this best-of-seven with a 5-1 win in Game 2 on Saturday night at Rogers Centre.
“Today’s game, we had to win,” Yamamoto said through an interpreter. “So that's just how I treated this game.”
Yamamoto, the Japanese flamethrower signed to the largest pitching pact in history, defended the defending champs from any of the mid-inning agony they had endured in Game 1 by going the distance. He allowed just a run on four hits with no walks and eight strikeouts, retired each of the last 20 batters he faced, and became the first pitcher to throw a complete game in successive postseason starts since 2001.
“That's pretty impressive, with a layoff in between,” Blue Jays manager John Schneider said of Yamamoto’s outing. “I think he made it hard for us to make him work. He was in the zone, split was in and out of the zone. It was a really good performance by him.”
The contest was a fast-paced, old-school pitchers’ duel. Both Yamamoto and Toronto’s Kevin Gausman were overqualified for the assignment, acting as aces in every definition. Yamamoto threw his "kitchen-sink" collection at the Toronto bats—splitters, curves, four-seamers, cutters, sliders, and sinkers.
Gausman wasn’t giving in, either. After the Dodgers struck in the first when Smith singled home Freddie Freeman, Gausman retired the next 17 batters faced. The deadlock broke in the seventh. Smith, who had been playing through a hairline fracture in his right hand, turned on a 3-2 offering to lift a solo homer into the second deck. One out later, Muncy sent a fastball into the Blue Jays' bullpen to extend the lead to 3-1.
“Two good pitches to two really good hitters,” said Gausman. “That was the difference.”
The Dodgers added another pair of runs off Toronto setup man Louis Varland in the eighth. Yamamoto finished what he started, striking out the side in the bottom of the eighth before closing it out in the ninth.
